In this video you're going to learn how to activate your free SSL certificate in blue host.
It's very simple to do.
All we need to do is really click this button to enable it.
But before we go ahead and do that I do want to explain what is an SSL certificate and what is really
the benefit of it and how much would it cost you if you weren't getting it for free.
So really an SSL certificate is very simple it makes your site more secure and you probably most commonly
see it here by having this little t t p s and in the browser seeing here that the site is secure.
So obviously blue hosts themselves have this SSL cert.
It's showing in my browser as a visitor to this site that this is secure.
Now let's compare this to my example site here.
You can see I do not have this secure symbol or the page DTP apps and if I click in I actually look
at the information here it says my connection to this site.
Me as a visitor now it's not secure and I shouldn't enter in any sensitive information.
For example passwords credit cards because it can be stolen by attackers.
So really there's a lot of technical stuff about waterin SL SSL certificate actually does.
But as a web site owner really the important stuff is is it really helps keep data secure.
It increases your Google rankings it builds and enhances consumer trust and it improved things.
Conversion rates because people can see OK this site is secure.
I won't fear about my information being stolen by hackers.
Now this is a business site that I set up here so it's not like people are entering credit card details
or passwords.
But still it just gives me that extra sense of security just by having this little symbol in the browser.
So obviously there are clear benefits to it here.
It can help you in these search rankings even though people are not putting in information on my site.
And it just builds consumer trust and increases those conversion rates.
Now how much would this cost you if you weren't getting it for free with blue hosts.
Well we'll look at Go Daddy here and you can see that for the first year it might cost you 55 56 dollars
and then $70 after that.
So getting it free is pretty cool.
And again this is just one of the advantages of its signing up.
And two blue hosts.
So as we can see here my site now does not have the certificates.
I'm just going to come into blue you come into home.
You can come into my sites you can come in to manage sites and then to get to that little button you
can come to security.
And then we can just click Enable there.
So now I can see that it's in progress.
And if I click in to see the information it says we're setting up your SSL right now.
It normally takes about an hour.
And if it takes more than four hours they will e-mail me asking for more information.
So I'm going to wait about an hour wait for this to show up on my side.
OK so back to my site now.
After a little bit of a wait and now I can see that the SSL cert has been activated.
I know that because here in the address bar its name showing the secure symbol and I can also see the
hates to deep space in green which looks fantastic.
So if you have any problems with this process I'd recommend you really use the live chat function on
blue hose.
Their support is really incredible.
So if anything doesn't happen or doesn't show up after that time period just get in touch with them.
So once again the benefits of getting an cells cert are that it keeps data secure between your servers
and your credit card information passwords can be hacked.
It also helps increase your Google rankings because you have that extra protection for visitors.
It builds consumer trust because it just looks great.
Then they know they're protected and it'll help improve conversion rates because they feel more confident
about signing up to emails or making purchases on your site because they know it's safe.
So the steps once again to activate your free SSL cert on blue hosts are to come into my site's security
and just click that button to get your free SSL cert activated.